README.md, before:

# NMBU-R-club
This is the open repository of the NMBU R-club. A space to collect resources related to instructing students in R and other content related to the R-club project.
The R-club is held every wednesday from 12:00 - 14:00 at Sørhellinga [(S124)](https://link.mazemap.com/CJaxy0tw)
 
## R-club on other platforms
- R-club on canvas (💬 not yet linked)
- [R-club on twitter (defunct)](https://twitter.com/nmbu_r)

# Resources
## Basic information on statistics
- [Statlearning - Longer E-book on statistics](https://www.statlearning.com/)
- [Fundamentals of data visualization](https://clauswilke.com/dataviz/)

## R cheat sheets
- [LARGE set of cheat sheets collected by the people behind R-studio](https://rstudio.github.io/cheatsheets/) (💬 Several other resources in this collection are from here)

## Books on R
- [Hands on programming with R](https://rstudio-education.github.io/hopr/)
- [R for Data Science](https://r4ds.had.co.nz/)

## Loading data
- 🟥 Using R-studios integrated loader for excel and csv files
- 🟥 Using code to load datasets

## Graphs in R
- [R Graph gallery - Graphs grouped by type](https://r-graph-gallery.com/index.html)
- [R Charts - Graphs grouped by use](https://r-charts.com/)
- [R-coder - plotting with base R](https://r-coder.com/r-graphs/)   
- GGplot specific
  - [![ggplot cheat sheet](https://rstudio.github.io/cheatsheets/pngs/data-visualization.png)](https://rstudio.github.io/cheatsheets/html/data-visualization.html)
  - [ggplot2: Elegant Graphics for Data Analysis](https://ggplot2-book.org/index.html)
- [Colors in R](https://rpubs.com/kylewbrown/r-colors)
- 🟥 Exporting graphs


## Working with data
When working with most types of data these 4 packages will let you wrangle all your data into workable formats.
### DPLYR 🔧
[![DPLYR cheat sheet](https://rstudio.github.io/cheatsheets/pngs/data-transformation.png)](https://rstudio.github.io/cheatsheets/html/data-transformation.html)
### TIDYR ✒️
[![TIDYR cheat sheet](https://rstudio.github.io/cheatsheets/pngs/tidyr.png)](https://rstudio.github.io/cheatsheets/html/tidyr.html)
### FORCATS 😻
[![FORCATS cheat sheet](https://rstudio.github.io/cheatsheets/pngs/factors.png)](https://rstudio.github.io/cheatsheets/html/factors.html)
### lubridate 🗓️
[![lubridate cheat sheet](https://rstudio.github.io/cheatsheets/pngs/lubridate.png)](https://rstudio.github.io/cheatsheets/html/lubridate.html)

- Pivoting
  - [Data Journalism with R - Storybench tidyr pivoting](https://www.rpubs.com/mjfrigaard/pivoting) (💬 quite complicated)

Commit message:

added better description of pivoting.md

README.md, after:

# NMBU-R-club
This is the open repository of the NMBU R-club. A space to collect resources related to instructing students in R and other content related to the R-club project.
The R-club is held every wednesday from 12:00 - 14:00 at Sørhellinga [(S124)](https://link.mazemap.com/CJaxy0tw)
 
## R-club on other platforms
- R-club on canvas (💬 not yet linked)
- [R-club on twitter (defunct)](https://twitter.com/nmbu_r)

# Resources
## Basic information on statistics
- [Statlearning - Longer E-book on statistics](https://www.statlearning.com/)
- [Fundamentals of data visualization](https://clauswilke.com/dataviz/)

## R cheat sheets
- [LARGE set of cheat sheets collected by the people behind R-studio](https://rstudio.github.io/cheatsheets/) (💬 Several other resources in this collection are from here)

## Books on R
- [Hands on programming with R](https://rstudio-education.github.io/hopr/)
- [R for Data Science](https://r4ds.had.co.nz/)

## Loading data
- 🟥 Using R-studios integrated loader for excel and csv files
- 🟥 Using code to load datasets

## Graphs in R
- [R Graph gallery - Graphs grouped by type](https://r-graph-gallery.com/index.html)
- [R Charts - Graphs grouped by use](https://r-charts.com/)
- [R-coder - plotting with base R](https://r-coder.com/r-graphs/)   
- GGplot specific
  - [![ggplot cheat sheet](https://rstudio.github.io/cheatsheets/pngs/data-visualization.png)](https://rstudio.github.io/cheatsheets/html/data-visualization.html)
  - [ggplot2: Elegant Graphics for Data Analysis](https://ggplot2-book.org/index.html)
- [Colors in R](https://rpubs.com/kylewbrown/r-colors)
- 🟥 Exporting graphs


## Working with data
When working with most types of data these 4 packages will let you wrangle all your data into workable formats.
### DPLYR 🔧
[![DPLYR cheat sheet](https://rstudio.github.io/cheatsheets/pngs/data-transformation.png)](https://rstudio.github.io/cheatsheets/html/data-transformation.html)
### TIDYR ✒️
[![TIDYR cheat sheet](https://rstudio.github.io/cheatsheets/pngs/tidyr.png)](https://rstudio.github.io/cheatsheets/html/tidyr.html)
### FORCATS 😻
[![FORCATS cheat sheet](https://rstudio.github.io/cheatsheets/pngs/factors.png)](https://rstudio.github.io/cheatsheets/html/factors.html)
### lubridate 🗓️
[![lubridate cheat sheet](https://rstudio.github.io/cheatsheets/pngs/lubridate.png)](https://rstudio.github.io/cheatsheets/html/lubridate.html)

- Pivoting
  - [Epirhandbook, a easy to read explination of pivoting](https://epirhandbook.com/en/pivoting-data.html#pivoting-data)
    - [![Pivot longer](https://epirhandbook.com/en/images/pivoting/pivot_longer_new.png)](https://epirhandbook.com/en/pivoting-data.html#wide-to-long)
    - [![Pivot wider](https://epirhandbook.com/en/images/pivoting/pivot_wider_new.png)](https://epirhandbook.com/en/pivoting-data.html#long-to-wide)
  - [Data Journalism with R - Storybench tidyr pivoting](https://www.rpubs.com/mjfrigaard/pivoting) (💬 quite complicated)
